a bas le ciel
politics is one of
those rare topics where we deal with theoretical
abstract philosophical questions in a way
that really matters in the real world it matters
on a large scale in terms of the future of
our society ecology the environment what have
you but it also matters in our personal lives
in a practical sense in terms of everyday
conversations we have everyday conflicts we
have real world situations we have to negotiate
with have to figure out a way out of of course
not too many there not too many topics under
the heading of political philosophy where
I could say that's true use a really down-to-earth
example kick off this video you may or may
not have been in the situation as a vegan
face to face with a meat-eater or over the
Internet some kind of chatroom discussion
where the meat-eater is saying to you with
exasperation look this is just about food
like where the meteor says to you how can
you waste my time with these questions when
all you're talking about is food all right
so from the meteors perspective there's an
implicit contrast here between really important
social and political questions like why is
the United States bombing Iraq the progress
of the war in Mosul and this kind of thing
and this category of merely personal preferences
dietary choices and questions of personal
purity so from the meteors perspective in
this case not always once in a while you have
this scenario from the meteors perspective
the vegan diet is as ethically absurd as the
kosher diet because they're both ultimately
just questions a diet it's just talking about
food and on a deeper level it's just talking
about personal purity so the meteor is saying
to you look I have some tolerance for hearing
you people talk about a kosher diet or Hindu
diet or a Buddhist diet but bottom line to
me it's all food and there's some other category
of real philosophy real politics real social
problems and that's what I want to talk about
whether it's the bombing of Mosul what what
is going on in the war in Iraq or maybe labor
unions protesting for higher wages raising
the minimum wage in the United States whatever
set of examples they happen to care about
or be engaged in now I said many times in
this channel sympathy is especially important
as an analytical tool I think it's worthwhile
for vegans to sympathize the other side and
understand why they perceive us that way while
they perceive us as people that way and why
they perceive the problems that veganism is
trying to engage with and address in that
way and there's no doubt that to some extent
meat eaters perceive our movement that way
because some members of our movement have
been actively packaging and promoting veganism
just as a lifestyle just as a plant-based
lose weight feel great have fewer heart attacks
have lower cholesterol you know this this
kind of thing and then a step beyond that
there are definitely vegans who package veganism
in pseudo spiritual terms where it does indeed
start to resemble a kosher diet it starts
to resemble a Hindu diet a purity based mentality
yeah now a step further beyond that and definitely
impacting more vegans although some vegans
consciously and intentionally speak in terms
of personal purity purification detoxing etc
I think there's a larger number of vegans
who think about the significance and importance
of the diet in terms of their identity and
we're in an unexamined way the issue of identity
the identity politics of being veganism really
is about purity here's an example that right
now is controversial there are some vegans
who go around arguing primarily to other vegans
which is of course hilarious in itself right
like this is this isn't outreach this isn't
trying to spread veganism this is really an
internal issue within because vegans who argue
that you're not really vegan if you eat almonds
that you're not really vegan if you eat blueberries
well of course of horse almonds are vegan
of course blueberries a vegan what's the argument
here the argument is that some crops in the
United States rely so heavily on honeybees
that really economically the production of
almonds in the production of blueberries should
be regarded as one stage in the cycle of profitable
production of honey and honey from honeybees
is not vegan and in the same sense that we
look at the production of cow milk as being
one stage in the same cycle of production
that produces leather and veal and of course
cow meat so on and so forth that's one industry
with several different stages of production
yeah now these people they may be very sincere
they may be very sincere and telling you that
you're not really vegan because you drink
almond milk they may not be doing this in
a cynical sense at all they may not be doing
this in a spiritual sense at all they may
not use the language of personal purity you
know they may use the language of ecology
of moral responsibility of being accountable
for the you know indirect ecological consequences
of your consumer choices they may present
this in a completely down-to-earth way but
my assertion here is that the underlying problem
actually is a problem of thinking of veganism
in terms of personal purity that because this
is my conceptual way of explaining people
you're looking at the human being as a dot
on a diagram the one person as a consumer
you're thinking of the vegan diet as a boycott
and then you're thinking of a circle drawn
around that point you know a circle drawn
around the point the diagram of how much ecological
impact that person makes and then the quest
to be more and more pure to more and more
curtail and reduce your the ecological impacts
or ethical negative negative ethical impacts
of your diet so thus with that mentality whether
or not it's expressed in terms of purity the
issue of almonds becomes a big deal they should
house paint a lot of paint and glue products
are non vegan by the way car tires blueberries
these things come to the fore because the
issue is are you vegan an are you living up
to this title that defines personal purity
and moral goodness and are you doing everything
you can to shrink down the ecological and
negative ethical impacts of your consumer
choices of your diet their choices.
So there are vegans who say to me really seriously
they don't believe in buying furniture or
they will only buy furniture if it is made
out of recycled garbage repurposed materials
not new wood because wood cuts down trees
and this harms the environment and so on with
this this has been carried on as a quest for
personal purity
Now it's really interesting, I got an email
just the other day I think just yesterday
from mod vegan mod vegan and I agree about
a lot of issues my vegans another youtuber
here aspiring vegan activist aspiring thinking
organizer and my vegan I have a lot in common
lately I've had a few videos disagreeing with
her on specific issues and I make those videos
because then they're interesting and worthwhile
points of disagreement but you gotta realize
my vegan that we agree about a lot and just
about two weeks ago she and I did a Skype
call so we did a face-to-face conversation
with Internet that lasted fully two hours
I know that because for me the phone call
started at midnight and I hung up at 2 a.m.
so it was up real late talking to ModVegan
that night.
You know and there was a whole constellation
of issues we agree about and I could make
a bunch of videos now talking about some of
those interesting just really summarizing
some of things that came up in that conversation
to us where you know we were both really a
part of it down to earth questions about how
we're actually gonna organize vegan movements
in Canada in the next 10 years like really
practical questions about what are we doing
next terms of getting organized in veganism
and some of the more more theoretical and
abstract issues but on the points here I you
know I do agree with mod vegan on a huge range
of issues across the board.
hHowever, I was really surprised when yesterday
I got an email from Maude and she was saying
to me that she considered me to be in the
pro purity camp this purity based approach
to veganism in contrast to pragmatists I suppose
a pragmatist a camp in which she would include
someone like Peter Singer and Tobias Leonar
we've got to get back to doing a book review
of Tobias lean arts book by the way we did
its kind of part one but we me and my girlfriend
we will reiden review the rest of the book
so those are interesting kind of dissident
voices in the vegan movement today Peter Singer
Tobias later on
so that really surprised me and I wrote back
to her saying well you know it's been a long
time since I addressed the purity issue but
quite a few videos and a couple of podcasts
I did patreon exclusive podcast really talked
about this at length and I listed off all
these reasons why I feel I'm not in the purity
camp if anything I'm kind of an aunty purity
vegan.
For me I think there's a there's a misconception
here look what is the problem in practice
with this purity mentality?
okay are you willing to cooperate with hunters
an association like Ducks Unlimited that hunts
ducks are you willing to associate with a
group that openly engages in fur trapping
bear shooting bears if as a vegan you start
a charity and do a conservation based project
where the outcomes you're pursuing our biodiversity
saving a certain plot of land saving a certain
forest this kind of saving a certain river
let's say a certain watershed are you willing
to cooperate and collaborate with groups that
eat meat and that may be actively engage in
in hunting okay from my perspective the answer
is in principle yes in practice maybe.
So then email I gave an example I said well
I could collaborate with hunters I'm actually
soft on that issue because although I take
the definition of veganism very seriously,
so I mean I don't think I'm a purist, I don’t
think it’s about purity, but I say well
look, this is the definition of veganism,
it's not flexible either you're vegan or you're
not, I'm willing to say okay I'm vegan they're
not here's the collaboration here's the common
ground here's what we have in common let's
build on it right.
Now I've been in real-world situations where
I mean 98% of the potential support you can
get and the crucial collaborations you need
are of course with meat eaters and quite possibly
with people who are hunters.
Whether it's here in Yunnan or in Cambodia
or Laos or Canada I mean most of the crucial
people you need partnerships with our government
officials our guard and bureaucrats would
have you.
There's a beautiful, beautiful species of
monkey here in yunnan right on the border
between you nan and Myanmar and it's down
to its last couple of trees of habitat that's
not an exaggeration I saw a documentary where
the you know the camera panned over the last
little tiny piece of habitat where they're
existing in the wild but other than that they
exist in zoos.
I would love to be part of a foundation you
know ultimately funded by donations by people
like you, were you work to try to bring back
this species of monkey from the the brink
of extinction and it is as it happens a very
cute a very endearing very harmless looking
species of a monkey it's really especially
heart-rending to see them in zoos or to see
the film of them.
[Music]
“There are very few left…”
“I know
“They’re in the forest, in [Chinese]
“…they will catch them and kill them,
sell them”
“[Also in] Nu jiang
“[There is a] monkey market”
So you know in some ways, I say you could
do the fundraising, we all know it's easier
to do fundraising for cute animals than for
ugly animals, it's easier to do fundraising
for cute little monkeys that hold their babies
the same way humans do, that breastfeed their
babies you can look at the cute babies and
the struggle of this family of monkeys to
survive in the trees.
That's very moving, that's very evocative,
it's easier to do fundraising for that then
save the Sharks, right sharks not so photogenic
not so cute, but nevertheless with a project
like that, if your conception of purity is
we only work with other vegans, how can you
possibly make progress.
Here in China the main people you need to
sit down and have lunch with and hammer out
agreements with and cooperate with are government
officials, are current members of the Communist
Party, current members of the are busy current
members the government though that's absolutely
crucially the cooperation you need to have
and then beyond that any other ecological
groups any other groups interested in biodiversity
species conservation habitat conservation
etc of course they're gonna be non-vegan and
quite likely they're gonna be involved in
either hunting or forms of ecotourism that
you find morally objectionable.
Now you know the counterpoint to this is this
is easy for you guys to imagine in a place
like the United States or Canada if I do have
cooperation with a group that engages in hunting
it may be impossible for us to get past something
as simple as a fundraising event at which
they want to have a barbecue at which they
want to sell barbecued pork right let's look
guys I'm sorry either we can't cooperate or
we can't do this joint fundraiser you guys
have to have a separate fundraiser and we
have to openly say we're against it you know
can we can we move past this but something
as simple as a barbecue pork fundraiser which
is very very common in the United States.
I don't know why Americans love like even
the Cancer Foundation to see the counselor
of Cancer Foundation's in the states doing
barbecues to raise money for cancer research
great idea guys you're selling hotdogs to
try to cure answer it's ridiculous.
Those are so as I say in principle I'm open
to that kind of cooperation but in practice
I recognize those insuperable barriers as
simple as they may be that may make cooperation
with non-vegans impossible so this runs totally
counter to the purity mentality because the
purity based mentality is about me being the
best vegan I can be which is understandable
that part is sympathetic but that's in the
pursuit of a personal identity a personal
status personal professional personal purity
as a vegan and my view of veganism is about
reaching out beyond myself reaching out to
other people reaching out to other groups
reaching out to get politically organized
to have the maximum impact on real world outcomes
and those real-world outcomes may be preserving
a particular forest it may be getting a particular
petition to Parliament it may be passing a
new law you know it may be a lawsuit against
a particular meat producing company you know
a lawsuit that's gonna draw attention to these
ethical issues or health issues or ecological
issues we hail look if we get our money together
we do scientific testing on this river we
can prove that this slaughterhouse is poisoning
the river then we can take that information
take it to court take it to the press we can
make a showcase where we say hey look we want
to talk about the ecological responsibility
and ethics of this slaughterhouse and more
broadly the meat industry great that's what
I want I want maximum outcomes maximum impact
maximum social change to ultimately make the
world a better place or make my little piece
of society a better place.
Maybe it is just to help one species of monkey
maybe it is just help one species of dolphin
maybe it is just to help one little piece
of land and maybe doing that involves a lot
of really uncomfortable uncomfortable compromises
that run counter to my own moral code my own
sense of personal purity but I want to get
my hands dirty I want to roll up my sleeves
I don't want this quest for personal purity
or personal perfection to impede my ability
to pursue those real-world outcomes that are
far beyond me and do not just involve my ever
the circle of consumer choices that have negative
impacts in the world whether that be almonds
blueberries or what have you.
Now sorry I could speak longer on the almond
issue and the indirect honey depression issue
but then I think this video would be much
too long if you guys want to hear about that
send me a message on patreon and I'll make
a separate video talk about that because during
the two-hour conversation with ModVegan and
we actually did talk about that at some length
and I got into some of the details.
So you know I guess you could say the contrast
here is between the purity mentality and the
policy change mentality, I am NOT vegan in
the pursuit of personal purity I'm vegan in
the pursuit of real-world policy changes.
a bas le ciel.